JP-3352 update residual fringe documentation (#8371)
spacetelescope/jwst: docs/jwst/extract_1d/description.rst

(as the IFUs themselves are significantly undersampled) this term is not presently computed or taken
into account in the ``extract_1d`` step.  As such, the error estimates should be taken as a rough
approximation that will be characterized and improved as flight data become available. 

> 

Reviewer: Given that this is a fairly extensive new set of material - unique to MIRI MRS - I suggest putting it into its own subsection within the larger Description. Perhaps this new outline of sections/subsections:

Extraction for 3D IFU Data   (already existing section header)
    Source and Background Extraction Regions   (new subsection header at top of existing IFU section)
    MIRI MRS 1D Residual Fringe Correction   (new subsection header at the beginning of this new material)

For MIRI MRS IFU data there is also a correction for fringing.

As is typical for spectrometers, the MIRI MRS detectors are affected by fringes.
The primary MRS fringe, observed in all MRS bands, is caused by the etalons between the anti-reflection coating
and lower layers, encompassing the detector substrate and the infrared-active layer. Since the thickness of the substrate

> is not the same in the SW and LW detectors, the fringe frequency will differ in the two detectors. Up to 16 microns, this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is not the same in the SW and LW detectors, the fringe frequency will differ in the two detectors. Shortward of 16 microns, this
```

> fringe is produced by the anti-reflection coating and  pixel metalization etalons, whereas above 16 microns it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fringe is produced by the anti-reflection coating and  pixel metalization etalons, whereas longward of 16 microns it is
```

produced by the anti-reflection coating and  bottom contact etalon, resulting in a different fringe frequency.

The JWST pipeline contains multiple steps to mitigate the impact of fringing on science spectra and these steps generally
suffice to reduce the fringe signal to below a few percent of the target flux.

> The first correction is applied by default in the ``fringe_step`` in the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first correction is applied by default in the :ref:`fringe <fringe_step>` step in the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline
```

> and  consists in dividing the uncalibrated "rate" image by a static fringe flat constructed from observations of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and  consists of dividing the uncalibrated "rate" image by a static fringe flat constructed from observations of a
```

> bright source that fills the entire MRS field of view. This step is described in the :ref:`fringe <fringe_step>` step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bright source that fills the entire MRS field of view. For more details see the :ref:`fringe <fringe_step>` step.
```

This step generally does a good job of removing the strongest
fringes from an astronomical scene, particularly for nearly-uniform extended sources. Since the fringe

> signal is different for point sources however (and varies as a function of the location of a point source within the FOV)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
signal is different for point sources, however, and varies as a function of the location of a point source within the FOV,
```

> the static fringe flat cannot fully correct such objects and the default high level data products will therefore still

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the static fringe flat cannot fully correct such objects.  The default high level data products will therefore still
```

show appreciable fringes.

The pipeline also includes two optional residual fringe correction steps whose purpose is to find and remove signals
whose periodicity is consistent with known fringe frequencies (set by the optical thickness of the detectors and dichroics)
using a Lomb-Scargle periodogram. The number of fringe components to be removed is governed by a Bayesian evidence calculation.
The first of these residual fringe correction steps is a 2-D correction that can be applied to the flux-calibrated detector data

> in the ``residual_fringe_step``. This step is part of the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline, but currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the :ref:`residual_fringe <residual_fringe_step>` step. This step is part of the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline, but currently
```

it is skipped by default. For more information see :ref:`residual_fringe <residual_fringe_step>`.

> The pipeline also can apply a 1-D residual fringe correction. This correction is only for MIRI MRS data and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipeline also can apply a 1-D residual fringe correction. This correction is only supported for MIRI MRS data and 
```

Reviewer 2: suggest whichever word choice is closest to reality here: "supported", "relevant", "defined", "valid", "applied", or maybe even "only runs successfully for".  I don't know which one it is, myself

can be turned on by setting the optional parameter ``extract_1d.ifu_rfcorr = True``  in the ``extract_1d`` step. 

> Empirically, the 1-D correction step has been found to both work better than the 2-D correction step if is applied to per-band spectra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Empirically, the 1-D correction step has been found to work better than the 2-D correction step if it is applied to per-band spectra.
```

> When using the ``extract_1d`` step to apply a 1-D residual fringe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the ``ifu_rfcorr`` option in the ``extract_1d`` step to apply the 1-D residual fringe
```

> correction the correction is applied during the extraction of spectra from the IFU cube. The 1D residual fringe code can be called outside the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correction, it is applied during the extraction of spectra from the IFU cube. The 1D residual fringe code can also be called outside the
```

> pipeline to correct an extracted spectrum. If running outside the pipeline the correction works best on single-band cubes and the channel of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pipeline to correct an extracted spectrum. If running outside the pipeline, the correction works best on single-band cubes, and the channel of
```

> the data must be given. The steps to run this correction outside the pipeline are:

Reviewer 2: random question, but if the channel truly **must** be given, shouldn't we make the channel parameter non-optional in the function?

Author: The program figures out what channel the data before calling fit_residual_fringes_1d.   So when running the 1d extraction in the pipeline the user does not need to supply it. However if running outside the pipeline (and a lot of people do their own extraction method) then the user does need to supply the channel because the code that figures that out is not part of fit_residual_fringes_1d.

Reviewer 2: but in both cases, the channel has to be known before calling the function, right?  The default is meaningless for the pipeline, which figures out what value to pass in beforehand, and it is meaningless to the user, who must specify the channel per the documentation.  Or maybe I'm still misunderstanding.

This is obviously a very small nit-pick and I assume it wouldn't be in this PR that is completely docs-focused anyway, I was just curious.

Author: When running the code in the pipeline the code figures out the channel. When running outside the pipeline the user has to supply the channel.
Does that make sense ?

Reviewer 2: there is no case where the function gets run and we don't care what the channel is, or we think, "yeah let's just set that to whatever the default is, it doesn't matter"

> the data must be given. The steps to run this correction outside the pipeline are:
> 
> * from jwst.residual_fringe.utils import fit_residual_fringes_1d as rf1d
> * flux_cor = rf1d(flux, wave, channel=4), where flux is the extracted spectrum, and the data is from channel 4 for this example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the data must be given. The steps to run this correction outside the pipeline are::

    from jwst.residual_fringe.utils import fit_residual_fringes_1d as rf1d
    flux_cor = rf1d(flux, wave, channel=4)
    
where ``flux`` is the extracted spectral data, and the data are from channel 4 for this example. 
```

approximation that will be characterized and improved as flight data become available. 

.. _MIRI-MRS-1D-residual-fringe:

MIRI MRS 1D Residual Fringe Correction
--------------------------------------
For MIRI MRS IFU data there is also a correction for fringing.
As is typical for spectrometers, the MIRI MRS detectors are affected by fringes.
The primary MRS fringe, observed in all MRS bands, is caused by the etalons between the anti-reflection coating
and lower layers, encompassing the detector substrate and the infrared-active layer. Since the thickness
of the substrate is not the same in the SW and LW detectors, the fringe frequency differs in the two detectors.
Shortward of 16 microns, this fringe is produced by the anti-reflection coating and  pixel metalization etalons, whereas
longward of 16 microns it is produced by the anti-reflection coating and  bottom contact etalon, resulting in a
different fringe frequency.

The JWST pipeline contains multiple steps to mitigate the impact of fringing on science spectra and these
steps generally suffice to reduce the fringe signal to below a few percent of the target flux.

> The first correction is applied by default in the :ref: `fringe <fringe_step>` step in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first correction is applied by default in the :ref:`fringe <fringe_step>` step in the
```

:ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline and consists of dividing the uncalibrated "rate" image
by a static fringe flat constructed from observations of a bright source that fills the entire MRS field of
view. For more details see the :ref:`fringe <fringe_step>` step.
This step generally does a good job of removing the strongest fringes from an astronomical scene, particularly
for nearly-uniform extended sources. Since the fringe signal is different for point sources, however, and varies
as a function of the location of a point source within the FOV, the static fringe flat cannot fully correct
such objects. The default high level data products will therefore still show appreciable fringes.

The pipeline also includes two optional residual fringe correction steps whose purpose is to find and remove signals
whose periodicity is consistent with known fringe frequencies (set by the optical thickness of the detectors
and dichroics) using a Lomb-Scargle periodogram. The number of fringe components to be removed is governed by
a Bayesian evidence calculation. The first of these residual fringe correction steps is a 2-D correction that

> can be applied to the flux-calibrated detector data in the :ref:`residual_fringe <residual_fringe_step` step. This step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be applied to the flux-calibrated detector data in the :ref:`residual_fringe <residual_fringe_step>` step. This step
```

is part of the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline, but currently it is skipped by default. For more
information see :ref:`residual_fringe <residual_fringe_step>`.

The pipeline also can apply a 1-D residual fringe correction. This correction is only relevant for MIRI MRS data and 
can be turned on by setting the optional parameter ``extract_1d.ifu_rfcorr = True``  in the ``extract_1d`` step. 
Empirically, the 1-D correction step has been found to work better than the 2-D correction step if it is
applied to per-band spectra.

When using the ``ifu_rfcorr`` option in the ``extract_1d`` step  to apply a 1-D residual fringe
correction, it is applied during the extraction of spectra from the IFU cube. The 1D residual fringe code can also
be called outside the pipeline to correct an extracted spectrum. If running outside the pipeline, the correction
works best on single-band cubes, and the channel of

> the data must be given. The steps to run this correction outside the pipeline are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the data must be given. The steps to run this correction outside the pipeline are::
```

> * from jwst.residual_fringe.utils import fit_residual_fringes_1d as rf1d
> * flux_cor = rf1d(flux, wave, channel=4)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from jwst.residual_fringe.utils import fit_residual_fringes_1d as rf1d
  flux_cor = rf1d(flux, wave, channel=4)
```

> where ``flux`` is the extracted spectral data , and the data are from channel 4 for this example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where ``flux`` is the extracted spectral data, and the data are from channel 4 for this example. 
```
